DOCS-9278-email-send-kt (#1112)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: email/1.3/modules/ROOT/pages/email-send.adoc

> = Send Emails with the Email Connector Example - Mule 4

Reviewer: "with Email Connector"

:keywords: email, connector, configuration, smtp, send, smtps
:page-aliases: connectors::email/email-send.adoc

> Anypoint Connector for Email (Email Connector) can send messages over SMTP and SMTPS servers using the *Send* operation. The following examples show how to configure Email Connector to send emails and attachments, both in Anypoint Studio and the XML editor:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for Email (Email Connector) can send messages over SMTP and SMTPS servers by using the *Send* operation. The following examples show how to configure Email Connector to send emails and attachments, in both Anypoint Studio and the XML editor:
```

* <<send-email,Send Emails>> +

> Configure the Email Connector *Send* operation to send emails over a SMTPS server.

Reviewer: "an SMTP server" because when you say the acronym, the S is pronounced like an "E" .

* <<send-attachments,Send an Attachment>> +

> Configure the File Connector *Read* operation to read a JSON file, and the Email Connector *Send* operation to send the file as an attachment over an SMTP server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the File Connector *Read* operation to read a JSON file and the Email Connector *Send* operation to send the file as an attachment over an SMTP server.
```

> Configure the File Connector *Read* operation to read a JSON file, and the Email Connector *Send* operation to send the file as an attachment over a SMTP server.

Reviewer: "an SMTP server"

* <<send-attachments,Send Multiple Attachments>> +

> Configure *Set Variable* components to define multiple media type attachments, and send these attachments using the Email Connector *Send* operation. Subsequently, log the result message using a *Logger* component.

Reviewer: Global: "the Email Connector" > "Email Connector" (I prefer the way you have it, but Kim feels strongly about not using "the" before the connector name)

> Configure *Set Variable* components to define multiple media type attachments, and send these attachments using the Email Connector *Send* operation. Subsequently, log the result message using a *Logger* component.

Reviewer: Suggestion: "Subsequently" > "Then" because it is a simpler word. I don't think you need a comma here if you use "Then", but I can't tell you why that is.

[[send-emails]]
== Send Emails

The following example illustrates how to send emails over the SMTPS server. The flow initiates with a *Scheduler* component, and then the *Send* operation sends the email.

> The SMTPS connection type enables SSL/TLS encryption and sends encrypted messages over the secured version of the SMTP server.

Reviewer 2: SSL/TLS: Choose the better of SSL and TLS or SSL or TLS

> The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio app flow for this example:

Reviewer 2: Do we have to specify Anypoint Studio?
```suggestion
The following screenshot shows the app flow for this example:
```

.Email Connector Send messages over SMTPS
image::email-send-flow.png[Email Connector Send messages over SMTPS flow]

To create the flow: +

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *Scheduler* component and drag it on to the canvas. +

Reviewer 2: Oops, I missed this in earlier texts:
```suggestion
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *Scheduler* component and drag it onto the canvas. +
```
We could also use just "to" instead of "onto." But should replace "on to" in this repeated phrase....

I actually had to look this up to remind myself. Here is the explanation I liked best:

Rule 1: In general, use onto as one word to mean “on top of,” “to a position on,” “upon.”

Examples:
He climbed onto the roof.
Let’s step onto the dance floor.

Rule 2: Use onto when you mean “fully aware of,” “informed about.”

Examples:
I’m onto your scheme.
We canceled Julia’s surprise party when we realized she was onto our plan.

Rule 3: Use on to, two words, when on is part of the verb.

Examples:
We canceled Julia’s surprise party when we realized she caught on to our plan. (caught on is a phrasal verb)
I’m going to log on to the computer. (log on is a phrasal verb)

(I'll add to Style Ref.)

> The source initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met.

Reviewer: "This source"

> . Drag the Email *Send* operation to the right of the *Scheduler* source. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Drag the email *Send* operation to the right of the *Scheduler* source. +
```
Not part of the UI label *Send*.
If not referring to the UI label but to the proper name of the operation, then you could use "the Email Send operation."
Ugh, this is tricky, isn't it?

. On the *Send* configuration screen, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element for the operation.

> . For *Connection*, select *SMTPS Connection*.

Reviewer: "In the *Connection* field..."
global for similar text

. In the *General* tab, enter the following values:
+
* *Host* +
`pop.gmail.com`
* *Port* +
`995`
* *User* +
`user3@domain.com`
* *Password* +
`passwordconnection`
+
[start=7]

> . For *TLS Configuration* select *Edit inline*.

Reviewer: Add a comma after "Configuration."
I suggest: "In the *TLS Configuration* section..." like you have for the Trust Store section.

. In the *Trust Store Configuration* section, enter the following values:
+
* *Path* +
`aTruststore.jks`
* *Password* +
`passwordtrust`
+
[start=9]
. In the *Key Store Configuration* section, enter the following values:
+
* *Path* +
`aKeystore`
* *Password*
`passwordkey`
+
[start=10]
. In the *Advanced* section, set *Enabled Protocols* to `TLSv1.2,SSLv3`.

> . Click *OK* to close the configuration.

Reviewer: "close the configuration screen/window" ??? or just say "Click *OK*."

The following screenshot shows the *Email SMTPS* configuration:

.Email SMTPS configuration
image::email-smtps-configuration.png[Email SMTPS configuration]

[start=12]
. In the *Send* operation configuration screen, set the following values:
+
* *From address* +
`user1@domain.com`
* *To addresses* +
`Edit inline`
+
[start=13]

> . Click the (*+*) plus sign to add new emails *Value* as `user2@domain.com` and `user3@domain.com`.

Reviewer: "Click the plus sign (*)..."

> . Click the plus sign (*+*) to add new emails *Value* as `user2@domain.com` and `user3@domain.com`.

Reviewer 2: I can't tell what this means:
Click + to add new emails and then populate the *Value* field with...? (two separate actions, add and populate)
Click + to both add...and populate (two combined actions)

. Set the *Subject* field to `IMPORTANT!`.
. Set the *Content* field to `"<h1>Hello this is an important message</h1>"` and the *ContentType* field to `text/html`. +

> If no *Body* content is specified, the content of the message payload is used by default. If that payload is not `text`, the operation fails with an `EMAIL:SEND` error.

Reviewer 2: How does this relate to the step that it is part of?
Are we saying that not setting *ContentType* to `text/html` results in an error?
Where does *Body* come into this? What are the payload options?

http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/email http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/email/current/mule-email.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/tls http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/tls/current/mule-tls.xsd">
	<email:smtp-config name="Email_SMTP" >
		<email:smtps-connection host="pop.gmail.com" port="995" user="user1@domain.com" password="passwordvalue" >
			<tls:context enabledProtocols="TLSv1.2,SSLv3" >
				<tls:trust-store path="aTruststore.jks" password="changeit" />
				<tls:key-store path="aKeystore" password="password" />
			</tls:context>
		</email:smtps-connection>
	</email:smtp-config>
	<flow name="emailconnectorFlow">
		<scheduler>
			<scheduling-strategy >
				<fixed-frequency />
			</scheduling-strategy>
		</scheduler>
		<email:send config-ref="Email_SMTP" fromAddress="user1@domain.com" subject="IMPORTANT!">
			<email:to-addresses >
				<email:to-address value="user3@domain.com" />
        <email:to-address value="user2@domain.com" />
			</email:to-addresses>
			<email:body contentType="text/html" >
				<email:content ><![CDATA["<h1>Hello this is an important message</h1>"]]></email:content>
			</email:body>
		</email:send>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

> [[send-attachments]]

Reviewer 2: HERE

== Send an Attachment

> The following example illustrates how to send emails and attachments over the SMTP server. Use DataWeave to handle the attachments. The flow reads a JSON file using the File Connector *Read* operation, then uses the Email Connector *Send* operation to send the content of the file as an attachment:

Reviewer: I suggest "and then uses..."

The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio app flow for this example:

.Email Connector Send attachments over SMTP
image::email-attachment-flow.png[Email Connector Send attachments over SMTP]

To create the flow: +

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select the *Scheduler* component and drag it on to the canvas. +
The source initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met.
. Drag the File Connector *Read* operation to the right of the *Scheduler* component.
. Set the *File Path* field to `file.json`.

> . Drag the Email *Send* operation to the right of the *Read* operation. +

Reviewer: Email > Email Connector or just say *Drag the *Send* operation..."

. On the *Send* configuration screen, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element for the operation.

> . For *Connection*, select *SMTP Connection*.

Reviewer: In the *Connection* field...

. In the *General* tab, enter the following values:

+
* *Host* +
`pop.gmail.com`
* *Port* +
`995`
* *User* +
`user1@domain.com`
* *Password* +
`password`
+
[start=9]
. Click *OK*.

> . In the *Send* operation configuration screen, set the *To addresses* field to `Edit inline`

Reviewer: Need a period for this sentence.

. Click the (*+*) plus sign to add a new email *Value* as `example@domain.com`.

> . Set *Subject* to `Attachment test`.

Reviewer: "Set the *Subject* field to" - global where needed

http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file/current/mule-file.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/email http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/email/current/mule-email.xsd">
	<email:smtp-config name="Email_SMTP">
		<email:smtp-connection host="pop.gmail.com" port="995" user="user1@domain.com" password="password" />
	</email:smtp-config>
	<flow name="emailattachment">
		<scheduler doc:name="Scheduler">
			<scheduling-strategy >
				<fixed-frequency />
			</scheduling-strategy>
		</scheduler>
		<file:read path="/file.json"/>
		<email:send config-ref="Email_SMTP" subject="Attachment test">
			<email:to-addresses >
				<email:to-address value="example@domain.com" />
			</email:to-addresses>
			<email:body >
				<email:content ><![CDATA[#["<h1>Hello this is an important message</h1>"]]]></email:content>
			</email:body>
			<email:attachments ><![CDATA[#[{
          'json-attachment' : payload
        }]]]></email:attachments>
		</email:send>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== Send Multiple Attachments

> The following example illustrates how to send emails and multiple attachments over the SMTP server. The flow initiates with a *Scheduler* component. Then, *Set Variable* components define each attachment media type (JSON, text and file). Subsequently, the Email Connector *Send* operation sends the attachments in the email. Finally, a *Logger* component returns a message with an object containing all the information used to send the email (request path, headers, and so on). The payload set immediately before the *Send* operation will be the output payload of the *Logger* message as well.

Reviewer: "JSON, text, and file"

This is a nit - I think that "all of the information" sounds better than "all the information"

. In the *Set Variable* configuration screen, set the following parameters:
+
* *Name* +
`json`
* *Value* +
`output application/json --- {address: '221B Baker Street'}`
* *MIME Type* +
`application/json`
+
[start=5]
. Drag another *Set Variable* component to the right of the first *Set Variable* component, and set the following parameters:
+
* *Name* +
`textPlain`
* *Value* +
`This is the email text attachment for John Watson`
* *MIME Type* +
`text/plain`
+
[start=6]
. Drag another *Set Variable* component to the right of the second *Set Variable* component, and set the following parameters:
+
* *Name* +
`octectStream`
* *Value* +
`vars.textPlain`
* *MIME Type* +
`application/octet-stream`
+

[start=7]
. Drag the Email *Send* operation to the right of the third *Set Variable* component. +
. On the *Send* configuration screen, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element for the operation.
. For *Connection*, select *SMTP Connection*.
. In the *General* tab, enter the following values:

+
* *Host* +
`pop.gmail.com`
* *Port* +
`995`
* *User* +
`user1@domain.com`
* *Password* +
`password`
+
[start=11]
. Click *OK*.

> . In the *Send* operation configuration screen, set the *To addresses* field to `Edit inline`

Reviewer: Need a period.

. Click the (*+*) plus sign to add a new email *Value* as `user4@domain.com`.

> . Set the *Content* field to `Email Content` and the *ContentType* field to `text/plain`

Reviewer: Need a period
"Click the plus sign (*)..."
